Package Eurostile 1

In 1952, Aldo Novarese and A. Butti designed Microgramma for the Nebiolo 
foundry. It was a popular face, but was available only in capitals. In 1962, 
Novarese produced a full character set, including lowercase letters, and the 
foundry renamed the family Eurostile. The letters are square-shaped with 
rounded corners, producing a look reminiscent of the machinery, technology, 
and interior design of the 1950s.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Many PC applications have separate menus for selecting typeface families and
typeface styles. Most applications let you choose among regular, bold, and
italic styles in the Style menu. However, some Adobe Type Library packages
include font software with additional style variations and stroke weight
variations. To select these variations, you need to know how the bold and
italic styles are linked to the base typeface. For example, the New Caledonia
typeface includes semi-bold, bold, and black. To use New Caledonia Black, you
need to choose New Caledonia SemiBold from the application's Font menu (or
equivalent), and then choose Bold from the Style menu (or equivalent).

If you are using a Microsoft Windows application, Ventura Publisher or
Microsoft Word, follow the guide to typeface style selection below. (The
Microsoft Word menu name will be as listed below but with any spaces in it
removed.) If you are using an application other than these, refer to the
application's documentation.

If you are reading this document using Windows Notepad, please make sure to
set your left and right margins to zero before printing.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PostScript                    Menu Name Plus Style Links          DOS File
Name                          (BOLD, ITALIC, and BOLDITALIC)      Name
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Eurostile                     Eurostile                           EU______.PFB
Eurostile-Demi                Eurostile,BOLD                      EUD_____.PFB
Eurostile-Oblique             Eurostile,ITALIC                    EUO_____.PFB
Eurostile-DemiOblique         Eurostile,BOLDITALIC                EUDO____.PFB
Eurostile-Bold                Eurostile Bold                      EUB_____.PFB
Eurostile-BoldOblique         Eurostile Bold,ITALIC               EUBO____.PFB
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
